DOCS-#2941: document `modin/data_management` module (#2956)
modin-project/modin: docs/flow/modin/data_management/functions.rst

Function Module Description
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Brief description
'''''''''''''''''
Most of the functions that are evaluated by `QueryCompiler` can be categorized into

> one of the patterns: Map, MapReduce, Binary functions, Fold functions, etc. Function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
one of the patterns: Map, MapReduce, Binary functions, Fold functions, etc. The ``modin.data_management.functions.Function``
```

module provides templates to easily build such types of functions. These templates
are supposed to be used at the `QueryCompiler` level since each built function accepts
and returns `QueryCompiler`.

High-Level Module Overview
''''''''''''''''''''''''''

> Each template represented with a class with the corresponding name and implements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each template class implements a
```

> ``register`` method, which takes functions to apply in an appropriate way and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``register`` method, which takes functions to apply and
```

> instantiate the related template. Functions that are passed to the ``register``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
instantiate the related template. Functions that are passed to ``register``
```

> will be executed under deserialized and preprocessed (depends on the template)

Reviewer: What does it mean for functions to be executed under deserialized and preprocessed?

partitions, so the function would take one of the pandas object: ``pandas.DataFrame``,
``pandas.Series`` or ``pandas.DataFrameGroupbyObject``.

.. note:: 
    Currently, functions that are built in that way are supported only in a pandas

>     backend (can be used only in `PandasQueryCompiler`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    backend (i.e. can be used only in `PandasQueryCompiler`).
```

Function module provides templates for this type of function:

Map functions
-------------

> Apply function to each partition in parallel. **Note**: map function should not change the shape of the partitions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Uniformly apply a function argument to each partition in parallel. **Note**: map function should not change the shape of the partitions.
```

.. figure:: /img/map_evaluation.svg
    :align: center

Reduction functions
-------------------

> Function that reduces specified axis into a scalar, but requires knowledge about the whole axis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Applies an argument function that reduces each column or row on the specified axis into a scalar, but requires knowledge about the whole axis.
```

Be aware that providing this knowledge may be expensive because the execution engine has to

> concatenate partitions along the specified axis. Also, note that the execution engine expects

Reviewer: The note here is specific to our current implementation, not necessarily general. You can add it as a `.. note:` and specify that this is the case for the `PandasQueryCompiler`.

Reviewer: I see. It is specific to pandas backend, but that is fine.

that the reduction function returns a one dimensional frame.

.. figure:: /img/reduce_evaluation.svg
    :align: center

MapReduce Functions
-------------------

> Function that reduces specified axis into a scalar. First applies map function to each partition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Applies an argument function that reduces specified axis into a scalar. First applies map function to each partition
```

in parallel, then concatenates resulted partitions along the specified axis and applies reduction
function. In contrast with `Map function` template, here you're allowed to change partition shape

> in the map phase. Note that the execution engine expects that the reduction function returns a one dimensional frame.

Reviewer: Same here re: note.

Binary functions
----------------

> Function that takes two operands (left is always `QueryCompiler`) and evaluates function along them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Takes two operands (left is always `QueryCompiler`) and evaluates the argument function along them.
```

If both operands are query compilers then the execution engine broadcasts partitions of
the right operand to the left.

.. figure:: /img/binary_evaluation.svg
    :align: center

.. warning::
    To be able to do frame broadcasting, partitioning along the index axis of both frames
    has to be equal, otherwise they need to be aligned first. The execution engine will do
    it automatically but note that this requires repartitioning, which is a much 
    more expensive operation than the binary function itself.

Fold functions
--------------

> Function that requires knowledge of the whole axis. Be aware that providing this knowledge may be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Applies an argument function that requires knowledge of the whole axis. Be aware that providing this knowledge may be
```

expensive because the execution engine has to concatenate partitions along the specified axis.

GroupBy functions
-----------------
Evaluates GroupBy aggregation for that type of functions that can be executed via MapReduce approach.

> To be able to form groups engine broadcasts `by` partitions to each partition of the source frame.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To be able to form groups engine broadcasts ``by`` partitions to each partition of the source frame.
```

Default-to-pandas functions
---------------------------
Do :ref:`fallback to pandas <defaulting-to-pandas-mechanism>` for passed function.

How to register your own function
'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

> Let's examine the actual example of how to use the function module in a sense of adding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's examine an example of how to use the function module to create your own
```

new functions.

Imagine you have a complex aggregation that can be implemented into a single query but
doesn't have any implementation in pandas API. If you know how to implement this

> aggregation efficiently in a distributed frame, you may want to use one of the described

Reviewer: ```suggestion
aggregation efficiently in a distributed frame, you may want to use one of the above described
```

> patterns. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
patterns (e.g. ``MapReduceFunction``). 
```

Let's implement a function that counts non-NA values for each column or row

> (`pandas.DataFrame.count`). First, we need to determine the function type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(``pandas.DataFrame.count``). First, we need to determine the function type.
```

MapReduce approach would be great: in a map phase, we'll count non-NA cells in each
partition in parallel and then just sum its results in the reduce phase.

To define the MapReduce function that does `count` + `sum` we just need to register the
appropriate functions and then assign the result to the picked `QueryCompiler`
(`PandasQueryCompiler` in our case):

.. code-block:: python

    from modin.backends import PandasQueryCompiler
    from modin.data_management.functions import MapReduceFunction

    PandasQueryCompiler.custom_count = MapReduceFunction.register(pandas.DataFrame.count, pandas.DataFrame.sum)

Then, we want to handle it from the DataFrame, so we need to create a way to do that:

.. code-block:: python

    import modin.pandas as pd

    def count_func(self, **kwargs):
        # The constructor allows you to pass in a query compiler as a keyword argument
        return self.__constructor__(query_compiler=self._query_compiler.custom_count(**kwargs))

    pd.DataFrame.count_custom = count_func

And then you can use it like you usually would:

.. code-block:: python

    df.count_custom(axis=1)

> Much of the `pandas` API function can be easily implemented this way, so if you'll find

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many of the `pandas` API functions can be easily implemented this way, so if you find
```

> out that some of your favorite function is still defaulted to pandas and decide to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
out that one of your favorite function is still defaulted to pandas and decide to
```

'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''
Let's examine the actual example of how to use the function module in a sense of adding new functions.

Imagine you have a complex aggregation that can be implemented into a single query but doesn't have any implementation in pandas API. If you know how to implement this aggregation efficiently in a distributed frame, you may want to use one of the described patterns. 

Let's implement a function that counts non-NA values for each column or row (`pandas.DataFrame.count`). First, we need to determine the function type. MapReduce approach would be great: in a map phase, we'll count non-NA cells in each partition in parallel and then just sum its results in the reduce phase.

To define the MapReduce function that does `count` + `sum` we just need to register the appropriate functions and then assign the result to the picked `QueryCompiler` (`PandasQueryCompiler` in our case): 
.. code-block:: python

    PandasQueryCompiler.custom_count = MapReduceFunction.register(pandas.DataFrame.count, pandas.DataFrame.sum)

Then, we want to handle it from the DataFrame, so we need to create a way to do that:
.. code-block:: python

> 

Reviewer 2: Maybe add "import modin.pandas as pd" here?

Author: Added import statements to the example

.. figure:: /img/map_evaluation.svg
    :align: center

Reduction functions
-------------------
Function that reduces specified axis into a scalar, but requires knowledge about the whole axis.
Be aware that providing this knowledge may be expensive because the execution engine has to
concatenate partitions along the specified axis. Also, note that the execution engine expects
that the reduction function returns a one dimensional frame.

.. figure:: /img/reduce_evaluation.svg
    :align: center

MapReduce Functions
-------------------
Function that reduces specified axis into a scalar. First applies map function to each partition
in parallel, then concatenates resulted partitions along the specified axis and applies reduction
function. In contrast with `Map function` template, here you're allowed to change partition shape
in the map phase. Note that the execution engine expects that the reduction function returns a one dimensional frame.

Binary functions
----------------
Function that takes two operands (left is always `QueryCompiler`) and evaluates function along them.

> Engine efficiently broadcasts partitions of the right operand to the left if necessary.

Reviewer 3: did you mean "effectively"?

Author: I meant "efficiently", but now I realized that we shouldn't grade our implementations in docs, so removed that confusing word.

.. figure:: /img/binary_evaluation.svg
    :align: center

> .. warning:: To be able to do frame broadcasting, partitioning along the index axis of both frames have to be equal, otherwise, they needed aligning first. The execution engine will do it automatically, but note, that this requires repartitioning, which is a much expensive operation than the binary function itself.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. warning:: To be able to do frame broadcasting, partitioning along the index axis of both frames has to be equal, otherwise they need to be aligned first. The execution engine will do it automatically but note that this requires repartitioning, which is a much more expensive operation than the binary function itself.
```
also please wrap the long line

Fold functions
--------------
Function that requires knowledge of the whole axis. Be aware that providing this knowledge may be
expensive because the execution engine has to concatenate partitions along the specified axis.

GroupBy functions
-----------------
Evaluates GroupBy aggregation for that type of functions that can be executed via MapReduce approach.

> To be able to form groups engine efficiently broadcasts `by` partitions to each partition of the source frame.

Reviewer 3: again, did you mean "effectively" here?

Author: answered [here](https://github.com/modin-project/modin/pull/2956#discussion_r622871455)

Default-to-pandas functions
---------------------------

> Do :doc:`fallback to pandas </supported_apis/index>` for passed function.

Reviewer 3: why do you link to this here?

Author: This is supposed to be a link, to the explanation of default to pandas mechanism, added link that leads directly to the that section

* Binary functions — Function that takes two operands (left is always `QueryCompiler`) and evaluates function along them. Engine efficiently broadcasts partitions of the right operand to the left if necessary. 
* Fold functions — Function that requires knowledge of the whole axis. Be aware that providing this knowledge may be expensive because the execution engine has to concatenate partitions along the specified axis.
* GroupBy functions — Evaluates GroupBy aggregation for that type of functions that can be executed via MapReduce approach. To be able to form groups engine efficiently broadcasts `by` partitions to each partition of the source frame.

> * Map functions — Apply function to each partition in parallel. Note, that the map function should not change the shape of the partitions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Map functions — Apply function to each partition in parallel. **Note:** map function should not change the shape of the partitions.
```

* Reduction functions — Function that reduces specified axis into a scalar, but requires knowledge about the whole axis. Be aware that providing this knowledge may be expensive because the execution engine has to concatenate partitions along the specified axis. Also, note that the execution engine expects that the reduction function returns a scalar.
* Default-to-pandas functions — Do fallback to pandas for passed function.

> Each template represented with a class with the corresponding name and implements ``register`` method, which takes functions to apply in an appropriate way and instantiate the related template. Functions that are passed to the ``register`` will be executed under deserialized partitions which are represented by one of the pandas object: ``pandas.DataFrame``, ``pandas.Series`` or ``pandas.DataFrameGroupbyObject`` (depends on the template type).

Reviewer 3: Hmm, I thought a partition is always a pandas DataFrame... but that it was also an implementation detail. Is it not so? And why should we care which object is used as partition implementation?

Author: It seems that I wasn't precise again in that formulation. Yes, a partition is always a `pandas.DataFrame`, but the template function may modify deserialized frame (`pandas.DataFrame`) before passing it to the registered function (for example, build groupby object from it or squeeze).

I've tried to rephrase it again)
